After all this, we decided
we would do it ourselves.
Then, we basically bought 25 hectares
in Valencia around the school and we
were going to make a rather pioneering
neighborhood, called La Pinada, La
Pinada neighborhood, very different
in content and in the process
of gestation.
So, basically we are co-creating
with future inhabitants, it'
s a bit to turn it around and say,
we're going to apply Lean Startup to
a promotion sector, which is like
super archaic, and basically
we're going to talk to you, customer,
to understand, understand you,
understand how you want to live,
what your budget is, and we'
re going to define the product,
understood as neighborhood, as
housing, that makes sense to
you.
This can result in many
room formulas.
And it's like giving a turn totally
to the sector, where we equally
spend a 10% of the equity of what
a promoter or a normal realizer would
do, because we don't sell on a
plane with the streets pulled.
We sell a dream, a concept, people
start pointing and a point comes,
we start to urbanize and
build, because it comes
a moment almost to execute
everything at once.
In what stage are you?
And then, the surprising thing
about this is that when we, as a
little team that we were pushing
this, we seemed quite interesting,
and that we would live there,
but we didn't even know how
many more people would live.
A little market acceptance,
market risk.
The surprising thing is that in a couple
of months they have targeted 1,000
people to live there.
There are 1,200 houses.
Then, in the end, they will live with
about 4,000 people and we have
1,000 families that have shown interest.
And very aligned with the theme of
sustainability or that they have a
spectacular environment for their children
to grow and live.
And then, what we will realize is that,
if we see a little bit on the plane
of people and not so much the
product, more than selling housing,
what we would like is to
sell live.
And that leads us to a very different
plan of thinking about what you want
to in your life and what you need.
How can we make it easier for you?
Regardless of your budget.
Almost a model, almost a word
that has never been, but we use
it, which is living as a service.
Listen, look, beyond living being
a space, how you move, what
you need, etc.
It will be very
different from any neighborhood
we know.
As an example, this sounds very
good to this movie, let's land it.
For example, imagine the access
model offers property.
For example, if you are thinking about
circular economy and ways that will
simplify you a little, or allow
you to get more out of your money.
The traditional model when you
have children is, I buy a cradle.
Buy me?
and a cave.
I buy a cradle, use it for 12 months,
18 months, and then I put it in the
shelter or give it to someone or
revend it.
I spend 200 euros on this.
Our proposal will be, does it
really make sense to buy a crib?
Why not rent it to you?
So why not rent it?
Instead of $200, you will
be charged $50.
As a starting point, I save you 150
euros, which you can use for other
things.
Then, to me as a neighborhood,
it implies me some income, because
I with this cradle can give it many rotates.
And then, in front of me, I
got a bar and shot it on the street
because I don't know how to repair
this, if something is broken,
we will repair it, clean
it, etc., and give it to the next.
This promotes local employment
and reduces waste.
Everyone ultimately wins
on such a model.
And there can be a lot of things about this.
Another example.
Have you created a catalog
of services?
We are in that.
Talk to the families, too.
Initially we thought that families
have approached a very diverse
audience, from grandparents to singles,
from a site so far away with
their philosophy.
Or you get your child sick and now
what do I do, right?
You can't even shoot, and
why not a hand-held
canguro?
That takes away a lot of
stress, right?
It's like, we'll make you live quieter,
better, and that way you return
hours so you can be more comfortable.
I think that at the end of
the interesting, more than this will
take a long time, I think it will be
an interesting site to read
metrics like what is the birth rate
in this neighborhood?
What is the life expectancy?
That I think it will be very different,
because what it is demonstrating is,
for example, social interaction,
social cohesion ends up creating well-
being and ends up creating
health, right?
As an example, there are neighborhoods
in Valencia that I've seen, or sites
in Valencia where, for example, there'
s a school and at the school exit
there's a park nearby, right?
And if that nearby park is even attached
to school, many children stay
playing, even if there is no
street.
And if, in addition to that park,
you would see parents with cross-
arms waiting for their children
to play and chat, if you had
a cafeteria in that pedestrian area
where parents can take a coffee,
a cup or whatever they want,
that is, those four sites that
there are in Valencia are always
flooding.
Why is it?
Because something as simple as,
well, you have it as a child, but
why do I have to sacrifice it
to have it as well?
And in a way that I don't feel safe,
there are no cars passing, I've been
watching you more or less,
etc., etc., right?
Then through the form, you
have a bestial influence on
the result.
Then, a diode and picture, when
one thinks of the product, think about,
almost it doesn't matter the orientation
of the houses, almost it doesn'
t matter where you take the
streets.
So you're thinking about how
many meters of roof I have, how
much I'm going to sell, how much
is the square meter.
We think about how to be happy
and live better.
And how can we use the form,
technology, etc., to allow
you that.
Because through technology
I can favor, for example,
social interactions, etc.
And then there will be a very
different abaric, will you?
Where people with very
different budgets can go very well
and almost build on what you have
in common and not on what differentiates
you.
Because in general the very, say, very
brilliant neighborhoods for families
with a certain purchasing
power have become very closed
and very exclusive.
What is seen is exclusivity.
And they are neighborhoods where there
is very little diversity, where you
have to play the car, thank
you, to go to sites and so on.
Why do you have to sacrifice him?
I am an urban, I like to drink
a drink from time to time, I like
to drink a coffee, I like to
work, I work more and more in
cafes, right?
I like that environment, right?
Why do I have to sacrifice that and
go to a place in the Fifth Pine
where, well, my children can run
to shoot with their friends and
I have to pick up the car to the
room to buy the newspaper and have
a coffee?
Why can't you get all that,
right?
Why not change that paradigm?
And the paradigm that in certain locations
there is a certain price, right?
This is not cheap, this is the whole scale.
And why can't we have that here people
of different profiles, that you can
have the, don't you? 30% WMP and
the most beautiful expensive
in Valencia too.
Why not?
And that you even have an offer
that allows people to
self-select, right?
In the end, that's a little bit
what...
So for our co-creation process what
we define is a bit of the clusters
or type of people you can group on
that they share things, at the end
you have a bit of a neighborhood
level governance model and subcommunities
that have things in common with
the whole neighborhood but things
equally differences from
other communities and nothing
happens, that's okay, right?
You can finish a lot of things,
right?
A lot of comparisons, many formulas,
And everyone ultimately enjoys
a very vibrant atmosphere and a
whole host of service packs, right?
A thousand stories,
right?
Even of utility, right?
Because you can't put together,
listen, look, we directly
put energy, water and telco
in a pack.
In other words, it will cost you much less.
Because apart from how we will design
houses so that they are very
energy efficient, orientations,
cross ventilation, bioclimate
houses, etc., it is that at
the end our energy consumption
will be minimal,
right?
A couple of weeks ago we announced
that Europe has chosen us as a
pioneering neighborhood in the
fight against climate change because
we will always break the paradigm
of this, right?
So, if we are now in the world
of new housing, new promotions,
etc. because in the end that
is pushed beyond the birth rate
that falls in the end they are
still creating new homes.
So on the one hand is the whole
battle of the regeneration
of housing, no? of old
housing, but also the new housing.
And why can't we do something
that inspires change and is
a reference to rethinking how
cities grow, right?
And that almost for us success
would be that when you came to the
pine, would you say, wow, what
past is this.
And when you fly to Madrid and say, hear,
I don't have a son or so, or where
I want to go to live, say, oysters, I
wish I had something like the pineapple,
right?
And whether we did it, or others,
that something very, very different
was done, didn't it?
And in the end that it would create
a social, environmental, bestial impact,
no? that's a bit of our goal.
Then, in the end, just like we measure
profitability, we measure a little
the creation of social and environmental
value, in this sense.
And well, and here we are now a
bit in a phase where we are involving
corporates and future inhabitants
developing joint solutions, right?
because it's also a sector where
a little supply chain is a conflicting
chain, that is, almost one
doesn't talk to the promoter,
struggles with the architect,
struggles with the constructor,
this is a bit absurd,
right?
Then each one is defining their margins
and I think that change the dynamics,
that is, no, look, we will sit
down, we will agree that they are
reasonable margins and from there
we will see how we create the
best solution that we bring
value to the customer, because
then we all win.
And this is almost more like concurrent
engineering, right? that's getting
people very early and creating extraordinary
solutions, right?
There are no interesting cases that
are a crossroads of, for example, WeWork,
right?
It's an interesting case that
we've studied, but in the end it's like
you're thinking a little about the role
of offices, in more modern times,
isn't it?
And I think we can create something
very interesting, right?
Almost like WeWork for new neighborhoods,
new ways of life, right?
It's not just how you work, but how
you live.
Even in our own neighborhood
we will have co-working spaces,
work, right?
So almost that's the simplest
thing that's good, that 80% of
the things I need are there.
And yes, that's very permeable and I can catch
it, right?
And go to other places, etc., but
that you can almost live there,
that you have a work space,
that you do not work every day,
but at least if I go, to say something,
to meetings, because I
have a couple of days that I
can work from there, and it
simplifies my life, right?
And you have, apart from our
school, let's say, that it's private,
there will be three public schools
and that's part of the spirit
of doing it as very integrated,
right?
You can have fun, you
and your kids too.
And little change that paradigm of if
you are going through it well as a
son, is that I am there with
crossed arms, right?
I think there is a lot of potential,
right?
In the end, we will live better.
I've really talked a lot about
technology, right?
But because in the end I see the human
component that you almost want to determine
where you want to go.
Technology is a means to get
there.
And obviously, coming from technology,
we will use it and a lot, but
without losing focus.
That is a bit of the idea.